ĐỀ LUYỆN READING 
ĐỀ 1 
Câu 31 - 35 
Read the following passage and mark the letter A, B, C, or D on your answer sheet to  indicate the correct answer to each of the following questions. 
If you are moving to a new country, you may be worried about adjusting to your new  community and losing your family traditions. However, it's crucial to understand that  embracing a new culture doesn't require abandoning one's traditions. Balancing both cultures  will be essential to maintaining your identity while embracing a new culture. Living in a new  country can feel strange and confusing, so what do you do to keep your roots and preserve  your heritage? 
Keep Constant Communication with Family & Friends 
It is vital to keep in touch with friends and family members to stay connected to your old home  and heritage. Whether it’s to call your mom for your favourite family recipe or your friends  to recall memories, keeping in touch with your friends and family can help you preserve your  culture. 
Join Local Clubs & Associations Tied to Your Culture 
Another great way to preserve your heritage in a new country is by joining associations or  clubs that connect with your lifestyle and community. These gatherings provide a space to  practice and celebrate cultural customs while fostering connections with others who have  experienced similar transitions. 
Maintain Cultural Tradition by Sharing It with Others 
A perfect way to preserve your traditions is to continue practicing them in your new home,  whether they are daily habits, celebrations, or food. There is nothing better than sharing the  traditions you love with friends or colleagues in your new home. You can do this by bringing  homemade treats to your office or hosting traditional events with new friends. 
(Adapted from https://www.aqmsnationalmoving.com/) 
31. What is the passage mainly about? 
A. Coping with cultural changes after relocating  
B. Balancing traditions in a new environment
C. Holding onto traditions in a different culture 
D. Making friends while adjusting to a new place 
32. The word “recall” in paragraph 2 is closest in meaning to ______. 
A. forget 
B. remember 
C. imagine 
D. reflect 
33. The word “them” in paragraph 4 refers to ______. 
A. transitions 
B. homemade treats 
C. traditions 
D. friends 
34. To continue cultural traditions in a new country, you can ______. 
A. discontinue familiar customs altogether 
B. share traditions only with family members 
C. maintain cultural practices in the new home 
D. conceal cultural practices from others 
35. What is NOT mentioned as a way to maintain your cultural identity? 
A. Calling your family 
B. Taking part in a sport club 
C. Sharing your cultural dishes 
D. Hosting traditional events 
Câu 36 - 42 
Read the following passage and mark the letter A, B, C, or D on your answer sheet to  indicate the correct answer to each of the following questions.
Cyberbullying is a very serious issue affecting not just the young victims, but also the victims'  families, the bully, and those who witness instances of cyberbullying. It may be hard to figure  out how some words of text on a computer screen can lead to such trauma. 
People might think that face-to-face bullying is much worse than cyberbullying since the  victims of real-world bullying have more difficulties escaping their tormentors, while a victim of  cyberbullying can simply turn off the computer or block a bully on a social media platform.  Unfortunately, it's not that simple. Face-to-face bullying can range from simple name-calling to  more significant acts of bullying, such as rumor-spreading, harassment, threats, and incidents  of physical harm between the victim and a bully (or group of bullies). While victims of real 
world bullying can be granted a reprieve when they go home, there’s simply no escape from  cyberbullying. It doesn’t end when the school bell rings. It can continue at any time, throughout  all hours of the night, and come in the form of text messages, social media posts, chatroom  messages, images and videos that have been altered, and many other digital forms. 
Cyberbullying leaves little opportunity for victims to defend themselves. There are no teachers  or parents to see what is happening and intervene to put a stop to it. Cyberbullying can also  be anonymous, leaving the victim little recourse to even report the bully to an authority figure.  If the victim knows who the bully is and chooses to block them on social media, they can  simply create a new account, text, message, or use a friend's account. Kids today are  extremely resourceful and savvy with technology. If they are intent on cyberbullying, there's  not much a victim can do to stop them. 
In essence, cyberbullying is more relentless, crueler, and more damaging than real-world  bullying. It is also one of the most significant stressors in a young individual’s life. 
(Adapted from https://www.kaspersky.com/) 
36. What is the main idea of the passage? 
A. Cyberbullying has had more serious and uncontrollable consequences. B. There are still some misconceptions about the impacts of cyberbullying. C. Cyberbullying poses more significant challenges than face-to-face bullying. D. The rapid advancement of technology is contributing to cyberbullying. 37. The phrase “lead to” in paragraph 1 is closest in meaning to ______. A. cause 
B. prevent 
C. break
D. affect 
38. The word “they” in paragraph 2 refers to ______. 
A. bullies 
B. cyberbullies 
C. victims 
D. incidents 
39. According to paragraph 2, there is no escape from cyberbullying because it ______. A. is constant and can happen at any time 
B. is less harmful than face-to-face bullying 
C. is limited to specific digital forms 
D. ends when the school bell rings 
40. Which of the following is NOT mentioned as a form used for cyberbullying, according to  paragraph 2? 
A. altered images and videos 
B. text messages 
C. online posts 
D. rumor-spreading 
41. The word “savvy” in paragraph 3 is closest in meaning to ______. 
A. imaginative 
B. experienced 
C. intelligent 
D. talented 
42. Which of the following can be inferred from the passages? 
A. Children’s families and teachers lack skills in being responsive to cyberbullying. B. Authorities figures and officials are not interested in anonymous cyberbullying cases.
C. Cyberbullying is a dangerous downside of children's technology proficiency. D. The anonymity of cyberbullies makes it hard for victims to block them on social networks. 
31.  
C
32.  
B
33.  
C
34.  
C
35.  
B
36.  
C
37.  
A
38.  
C
39.  
A
40.  
D
41.  
B
42.  
D





ĐỀ 2 
Read the following passage and mark the letter A, B, C or D on your answer sheet to  indicate the correct answer to each of the questions. 
For many people who live in cities, parks are an important part of the landscape. They  provide a place for people to relax and play sports, as well as a refuge from the often harsh  environment of a city. What people often overlook is that parks also provide considerable  environmental benefits. 
One benefit of parks is that plants absorb carbon dioxide - a key pollutant - and emit  oxygen, which humans need to breathe. According to one study, an acre of trees can absorb  the same amount of carbon dioxide that a typical car emits in 11,000 miles of driving. Parks  also make cities cooler. Scientists have long noted what is called the Urban Heat Island Effect:  building materials such as metal, concrete, and asphalt absorb much more of the sun’s heat  and release it much more quickly than organic surfaces like trees and grass. Because city  landscapes contain so much of these building materials, cities are usually warmer than  surrounding rural areas. Parks and other green spaces help to mitigate the Urban Heat Island  Effect. 
Unfortunately, many cities cannot easily create more parks because most land is already  being used for buildings, roads, parking lots, and other essential parts of the urban  environment. However, cities could benefit from many of the positive effects of parks by  encouraging citizens to create another type of green space: rooftop gardens. While most  people would not think of starting a garden on their roof, human beings have been planting  gardens on rooftops for thousands of years. Some rooftop gardens are very complex and  require complicated engineering, but others are simple container gardens that anyone can  create with the investment of a few hundred dollars and a few hours of work.
Rooftop gardens provide many of the same benefits as other urban park and garden  spaces, but without taking up the much-needed land. Like parks, rooftop gardens help to  replace carbon dioxide in the air with nourishing oxygen. They also help to lessen the Urban  Heat Island Effect, which can save people money. 
In the summer, rooftop gardens prevent buildings from absorbing heat from the sun, which  can significantly reduce cooling bills. In the winter, gardens help hold in the heat that materials  like brick and concrete radiate so quickly, leading to savings on heating bills. Rooftop  vegetable and herb gardens can also provide fresh food for city dwellers, saving them money  and making their diets healthier. Rooftop gardens are not only something everyone can enjoy,  they are also a smart environmental investment. 
Question 36: Based on its use in paragraph 2, it can be inferred that mitigate belongs to  which of the following word groups? 
A. exacerbate, aggravate, intensify B. obliterate, destroy, annihilate C. allay, alleviate, reduce D. absorb, intake, consume Question 37: Using the information in paragraph 2 as a guide, it can be inferred that ______. A. cities with rooftop gardens are cooler than those without rooftop gardens. B. some plants are not suitable for growth in rooftop gardens.  
C. most people prefer parks to rooftop gardens. 
D. most people prefer life in the country over life in the city. 
Question 38: Based on the information in paragraph 3, which of the following best describes  the main difference between parks and rooftop gardens? 
A. Parks are expensive to create while rooftop gardens are not. 
B. Parks are public while rooftop gardens are private.  
C. Parks absorb heat while rooftop gardens do not. 
D. Parks require much space while rooftop gardens do not. 
Question 39: The author claims all of the following to be the benefits of rooftop gardens  except______. 
A. increased space for private relaxation. B. savings on heating and cooling costs . C. better food for city dwellers. D. improved air quality.
Question 40: According to the author, one advantage that rooftop gardens have over parks is  that they______. 
A. decrease the Urban Heat Island Effect.  
B. replenish the air with nourishing oxygen. 
C. do not require the use of valuable urban land. 
D. are less expensive than traditional park spaces. 
Question 41: The author’s tone in the passage is best described as ______. A. descriptive B. passionate C. informative D. argumentative 
Question 42: It can be inferred from the passage that the author would most likely endorse a  program that ______. 
A. permitted the construction of buildings in city park land provided they have rooftop  gardens. 
B. extended discounts on plants to customers who use them to create rooftop gardens. C. offered free admission to schools willing to take their students on field trips to the city park. 
D. promised vacation getaways to cooler destinations for those trapped in the city at the peak  of summer. 
Read the following passage and mark the letter A, B, C or D on your answer sheet to  indicate the correct answer to each of the questions. 
One of the most interesting authors of the twentieth century, J.R.R Tolkien, achieved fame  through his highly inventive trilogy. The Lord of the Rings. Born in 1892, Tolkien received his  education from Oxford and then served in World War I. After the war, he became a professor  of Anglo -Saxon and English language and literature at Oxford University. 
Although published in 1965, the three books that comprise the Lord of the Rings were  written in intervals from 1936 to 1949. This was mainly due to Tolkien's responsibilities as a  professor and the outbreak of World War II. By the late 1960s, this fascinating trilogy had  become a sociological phenomenon as young people intently studied the mythology and  legends created by Tolkien. 
The trilogy is remarkable not only for its highly developed account of historical fiction but  also its success as a modern heroic epic. The main plot describes the struggle between good  and evil kingdom as they try to acquire a magic ring that has the power to rule the world. The 
novels, which are set in a time called Middle Earth, describe a detailed fantasy  world. Established before humans populated the Earth, Middle Earth was inhabited by good  and evil creatures such as hobbits, elves, monsters, wizards, and some humans. The  characters and the setting of Middle Earth were modeled after mythological stories from  Greece and Northern Europe. 
Although readers have scrutinized the texts for inner meaning and have tried to connect  the trilogy with Tolkien's real life experiences in England during World War II, he denied the  connection. He claims that the story began in his years as an undergraduate student and grew  out of his desire to create mythology and legends about elves and their language. 
Tolkien was a masterful fantasy novelist who used his extensive knowledge of folklore to  create a body of work that is still read and enjoyed throughout the world today. 
Question 43: What can we assume is NOT true about Middle Earth? 
A. Middle Earth was based on European folktales. 
B. Middle Earth was a fictional world. 
C. The good and evil kingdom fought for the power.  
D. People dominated Middle Earth. 
Question 44: The word "scrutinized” in the fourth paragraph could be replaced by______. A. examined B. denied C. enjoyed D. criticized Question 45: What does this paragraph mainly discuss? 
A. J.R.R Tolkien's work as a professor. B. All of J.R.R Tolkien's fantasy books. C. J.R.R Tolkien and his trilogy. D. The popularity of J.R.R Tolkien. 
Question 46: According to the passage, when did "the Lord of the Rings" trilogy become  popular with young people? 
A. In the late 1960s B. After World War II 
C. In 1892 D. Between 1936 and 1946 Question 47: When did Tolkien begin to create this trilogy? 
A. When he was a student B. During World War I 
C. When he was a professor D. During World War II
Question 48: What does the word "trilogy" in the first paragraph mean? 
A. A specific type of fantasy novel. B. A long novel. 
C. A group of three literary books. D. An unrelated group of books. Question 49: What is the setting of Tolkien's trilogy? 
A. Modem - day Greece. B. England in the 1800's. 
C. Oxford University. D. Middle Earth. 
Question 50: The word "fascinating" in the second paragraph could be replaced by ______. A. thrilling B. extremely interesting C. boring D. terrifying 
36-C 37-A 38-D 39-A 40-C 41-C 42-B 43-D 44-A 45-C 46-A 47-A 48-C 49-D 50-B



ĐỀ 3 
Read the following passage and mark the letter A, B, C, or D on your answer sheet to  indicate the correct answer to each of the questions. 
There was a man who had four sons. He wanted his sons to learn not to judge things too  quickly. So he sent them each on a quest, in turn, to go and look at a pear tree that was a  great distance away. The first son went in the winter, the second in the spring, the third in  summer, and the youngest son in the fall. When they had all gone and come back, he called  them together to describe what they had seen. 
The first son said that the tree was ugly, bent, and twisted. The second son said no – it was  covered with green buds and full of promise. The third son disagreed, he said it was laden  with blossoms that smelled so sweet and looked so beautiful, it was the most graceful thing he  had ever seen. The last son disagreed with all of them; he said it was ripe and drooping with  fruit, full of life and fulfilment. 
The man then explained to his sons that they were all right, because they had each seen  but one season in the tree’s life. He told them that you cannot judge a tree, or a person, by  only one season, and that the essence of who they are – and the pleasure, joy, and love that  come from that life – can only be measured at the end, when all the seasons are up. If you  give up when it’s winter, you will miss the promise of your spring, the beauty of your summer,  fulfilment of your fall.
Don’t judge a life by one difficult season. Don’t let the pain of one season destroy the joy of  all the rest. 
(source: https://www.beliefnet.com) 
Câu 31. Which best serves as the title for the passage? 
A. The Seasons of Life B. The Observation of a Tree C. Father and Four Sons D. Love all the Seasons in a Year Câu 32. According to the paragraph 2, what did the second son see in his turn? A. The tree was gloomy, withered and crooked. 
B. The tree was in buds and teeming with vigor. 
C. The tree was blossoming and gave off a sweet scent. 
D. The tree was bountifully fruitful, brimming with life force. 
Câu 33. The word “laden” in paragraph 2 is closest in meaning to . A. loaded B. decorated C. enhanced D. given Câu 34. The word “they” in paragraph 3 refers to . 
A. the four sons B. green buds C. trees, people D. the pleasure, joy  and love 
Câu 35. According to the paragraph 4, what is the lesson the father wanted to impart to his  children? 
A. Moral lessons can come from the most unexpected and ordinary things. B. No matter what season it is outside, you always have to cherish it. 
C. The old age of humans is similar to the winter of nature. 
D. Persevere through the difficulties and better times are sure to come sometime sooner  or later. 
Read the following passage and mark the letter A, B, C, or D on your answer sheet to  indicate the correct answer to each of the questions. 
Times are tough. The nightly news is filled with stories of people who have lost their jobs  due to the economic crisis, or lost their homes in a fire or natural disaster. Have you ever seen 
people who have just endured an awful situation? Some focus on what they have lost, and this  is easy to understand. But other people focus on what they did not lose, and they start thinking  about a better future. 
One good piece of advice to remember is that you cannot always control situations or other  people. The only thing you can control is your own personal reaction to bad situations.  Sometimes a situation may really be overwhelming. However, in many cases, you really can  influence our own moods by the way you think about negative situations. 
Imagine two families: Both have lost their homes and all their belongings in a devastating  storm. One family cannot mask their grief. They feel that everything they hold dear has been  destroyed. They cannot imagine how they will ever be able to replace things and start over  again. Their normal life seems to have been completely lost. In contrast, a second family is  crying with joy. All of the people in their family are unharmed and safe. This family is just  happy that everyone has survived. This family is already trying to figure out how they can  recover. You can’t really blame the first family for experiencing a very normal reaction to a  terrible situation. However, the second family certainly seems to be better off. They are  thinking about making progress rather than focusing on the tragic events. 
Though this scenario is extreme, everyone experiences setbacks that seem just awful at  the time. This could be a job loss, illness, or problems with family members. Nobody gets  through life without having some bad things happen. In these situations, try to focus on the  steps you can take to remedy the situation, instead of how awful the setback is. By doing this,  you will be laying the foundation for a better tomorrow. And you will not suffer as much  pain today. 
Actually, controlling how you feel and trying to maintain a positive attitude can help you  through many tough situations. The bottom line is, no matter what the problem is, you are  more likely to fix it if you can stay positive and work out a plan. Also, never be afraid to seek  help when you need it. The advice of a friend, family member, or even a professional may be  all it takes to get back on track. 
It may sound like a cliché. While a positive attitude may not be the answer to every problem,  it can certainly give you an advantage in surviving most of life’s minor setbacks. 
(Adapted from “Select Readings – Upper Intermediate” by Linda Lee and Erik Gundersen) Câu 36. Which of the following could be the main idea of the passage? 
A. Being optimistic is an effective way to get over bad situations. 
B. Keeping positive or negative thoughts is the own choice of each person. C. Positive thoughts are necessary conditions to be successful.
D. There seems to have more pessimists than optimists. 
Câu 37. The word “grief” in paragraph 3 is closest in meaning to _ . A. problem B. sorrow C. disappointment D. damage Câu 38. What does the word “they” in paragraph 3 refer to? 
A. tragic events B. all of the people C. the first family D. the second family Câu 39. It can be inferred from the third paragraph that . A. disappointment and sadness are all people’s common emotions in terrible situations. B. your attitude in terrible situations is more important than how serious the problems are. C. optimists often suffer less terrible situations than pessimists. 
D. your attitude will decide the way you react to terrible situations. 
Câu 40. The word “scenario” in paragraph 4 mostly means _. A. trouble B. background C. circumstance D. imagination Câu 41. According to the passage, which of the following is NOT true? 
A. The thing people have to remember is managing their own reaction to bad situations. B. Everyone will suffer some terrible experiences in their life. 
C. Paying attention to the solutions of the setback is better than focusing on the damage  it causes. 
D. To have a good foundation for the future, you should not undergo bad situations today. 
Câu 42. According to paragraph 5, what is the major thing you should do when you have  troubles? 
A. Be optimistic and make out a plan. B. Ask other people for help when necessary. C. Control your emotions. D. Determine how serious the problem is. Câu 43. What is the main purpose of the author in the passage? 
A. To prove that optimism is better than pessimism. 
B. To encourage people to maintain a positive attitude in every setback.
C. To compare the advantages of positive attitude with those of negative ones. D. To explain the emotions people have when they are in bad situations. Câu 44. He should have listened to your advice. 
A. It was essential that he listen to your advice but he didn't. 
B. It was likely that he could have listened to your advice. 
C. I was guess he might have taken your advice. 
D. He needn’t have listened to your advice. 
Câu 45. Tom said: "I have already had breakfast, so I am not hungry." A. Tom said he had already had breakfast, so he is not hungry. 
B. Tom said he has already had breakfast, so he is not hungry. 
C. Tom said he has already had breakfast, so he was not hungry. 
D. Tom said he had already had breakfast, so he was not hungry. 
Câu 46. As John became more successful, he had less time for his family. A. The less time John had for his family, the more successful he became. B. The more successful John became, the less time he had for his family. 
C. More and more successful John achieved caused him to have less time for his family. D. The more successful John achieved, the less time he had for his family. 
31 A 32 B 33 A 34 C 35 D 36 A 37 B 38 D 39 D 40 C 
41 D 
42 A 
43 B 
44 A 
45 D 
46 B



ĐỀ 4
Read the following passage and mark the letter A, B, C, or D on your answer sheet to indicate  the correct answer to each of the questions. 
Many of us worry about the effects of television on family life. We think that we spend too  much time watching television and that it takes us away from more important activities, such  as reading, exercising and talking to family and friends. But is this really true? 
Studies have shown that people in the United States do spend a lot of time in front of their  television sets. About 98% of American homes have at least one TV set, and in the average  home the TV is on more than six hours a day. But how much attention do people actually pay  to the programs? And do people who watch TV really spend less time on other free-time  activities? Recently some researchers in New York City tried to find the answers to these  questions by conducting a telephone survey. They phoned more than a thousand people all  over the United States and asked them questions about how they spend their free time. 
No one was surprised to find out that watching TV is the most popular free-time activity in  the United States. More than 70% of those asked said that they watch TV every day or almost  every day. The second most popular activity that they mentioned was reading the newspaper.  Listening to music at home was third, talking on the phone to friends and relatives was fourth  and doing some form of exercise was fifth. 
But the researchers discovered an interesting fact about Americans' TV habits. According  to this survey, although most people turn the TV on every day, they do not actually watch it  very much. Six out of ten people said that when the TV is on, they seldom pay attention to it.  During a typical television program, they may eat dinner, do housework, read a newspaper or  magazine, talk to their children or even read to them. The TV may be on, but it is just  background music. 
The researchers therefore concluded that television does not take Americans away from  more important activities. It doesn't keep them from doing other free-time activities. In fact,  when they compared people who frequently watch TV and those who seldom watch TV, they  found that there were no great differences in their other activities. The frequent watchers read  to their children and talk to their families just as much as the others. 
(Adapted from “Reading Academic English” by Judy Rapoport, Ronit Broder and  Sarah Feingold) 
Câu 31. Which of the following could be the best tittle of the passage? 
A. Do people prefer watching TV to other free-time activities? 
B. The TV is on but who’s watching? 
C. Is TV always bad?
D. What are people’s TV habits? 
Câu 32. According to the passage, the following are true, EXCEPT . A. Almost all American households own one or more TV sets. 
B. Reading newspapers ranks second in popularity, just after watching TV. C. American people have their TV on for more than a quarter of a day. 
D. About a third of those asked spent more time on other free-time activities. Câu 33. The word “conducting” in paragraph 2 is closest in meaning to . A. organizing B. preparing C. asking D. reviewing 
Câu 34. What did the researchers find about Americans’ TV habits in their survey? A. TV distracts most people from doing other activities. 
B. People who seldom watch TV spend more time on children than frequent watchers. C. 60% of frequent watchers often do others things while the TV is on. 
D. Infrequent watchers do a more variety of activities than others. 
Câu 35. What does the word “they” in the last paragraph refer to? 
A. free-time activities B. Americans  C. the researchers D. frequent watchers 
Read the following passage and mark the letter A, B, C, or D on your answer sheet to indicate  the correct answer to each of the questions. 
A generation gap in the workplace can make workers both young and old feel inferior, as  well as hamper productivity and teamwork. Differences between generations can be seen in  work ethics, habits and communication styles. Younger workers might fear not being taken  seriously by their older colleagues, while older workers might fear that their experience is not  valued but replaced by workers with knowledge of more current technology. However,  members of each generation can close the gap between them if they're willing to meet one  another halfway. 
Older workers can show respect to the younger set by asking for their opinions and  recognizing their contributions to the workplace as valid, or complimenting them on a job well  done. Younger workers can show their elders respect by asking for advice on how to manage 
a situation with work, based on the older worker's many years of experience. It's important for  both entry- and senior-level workers to see each other as equals, regardless of the type of  position in which they work. No one wants to feel inferior or irrelevant just because of their  age. Rather, a generation gap at work can be a learning opportunity. 
Workers can also put themselves in their colleagues' shoes to determine what might be  bothering them about their generational age difference. If a person is much older than another,  perhaps it is bitterness about fewer job opportunities, or fear that a younger worker might  seem more relevant and edge him out of his job. If workers open their minds to understand  where co-workers are coming from, it can help ease any tension between them and  appreciate each other's work contributions. 
If age seems to be a problem for someone at the workplace, it can be helpful to do the  very opposite of what a co-worker might expect from someone of a different age set due to  stereotypes. For example, if a worker is considerably younger such as right out of college, she  can share researched information to indicate that she knows what she's doing, or show  curiosity instead of upset to indicate emotional maturity if the person makes a disparaging  remark about her youth. Older workers can maintain an enthusiastic attitude about work  instead of showing boredom or bitterness from past experiences. 
Workers can, moreover, directly address the concern of age differences at work with the  colleague at odds with them by asking the person for constructive advice on how to handle the  issue. For example, older workers who are unfamiliar with new software that younger  colleagues understand might acknowledge to them that they did the same tasks differently in  years past but show interest in learning the program to keep up with modern technology.  Learning to speak their technological language can make them feel more connected.  Likewise, a younger worker can admit to being green on the work scene, but eager to gain  experience by learning from senior colleagues. 
(Source: http://work.chron.com/ ) 
Câu 36. What is the purpose of writer in the passage? 
A. To describe the status of generation gap in the workplace. 
B. To suggest the solutions to bridge the generation gap between the older and  younger workers. 
C. To determine which generation will have more influence on the workforce. D. To show the differences between the older and younger at their work. Câu 37. Each generation should respect the other generation at work to .
A. affirm their ability or personal experience they contribute to work. 
B. express the recognition to the other’s position in the workplace. 
C. make the other feel that they are necessary or useful in the workplace. D. treat the other equally at work. 
Câu 38. What does the writer mean by stating “put themselves in their colleagues' shoes” in  paragraph 3? 
A. Workers should try on their colleagues’ shoes to master the difference of their generation. 
B. Workers should buy their colleagues’ shoes not to bother them about generational age  difference. 
C. Workers should determine the differences between their generational ages so that they can  understand their colleagues’ situation. 
D. Workers should imagine that they are in their colleagues’ situation to understand and  sympathy the difficulties they meet. 
Câu 39. The word “him” in paragraph 3 refers to _ . 
A. an older worker B. a younger worker C. a colleague D. a person Câu 40. What is the synonym of the word “stereotypes” in paragraph 4? A. achievements B. failures C. prejudices D. jealousness 
Câu 41. According to the passage, the following are measures to overcome the generation  gap, EXCEPT . 
A. Keeping an open mind B. Doing the opposite 
C. Requesting feedback D. Appreciating the opportunity 
Câu 42. The word “acknowledge” is closest in meaning to . 
A. recognize B. enhance C. acquire D. distinguish 
Câu 43. It can be inferred from the passage that . 
A. The younger and older workers should meet one another on the way to reduce generation  gap in the workplace.
B. The main principle to bridge the generation gap is to balance the experience and  technology. 
C. Positive attitude will help to decrease the conflicts between the older and younger. D. The competitive environment in the workplace might make the generation gap wider. 
31 B 32 D 33 A 34 C 35 C 36 B 37 C 38 D 39 A 40 C 
41 D 
42 A 
43 B



Trên đây là bộ đề mình vừa soạn. Nếu các bạn cần 1 địa điểm học kéo tất cả kĩ năng lên 9,5-10  luôn thì có thể tham khảo lớp bên mình nhé. Mình dạy Online luyện thi B1 B2 C1 từ 0 -> 10. Các  bạn muốn tham khảo lớp nhắn tin mình sẽ hỗ trợ thêm nhé. Chúc các bạn ôn thi thật tốt nha ^^
